Move and rewrite how to create a basic data layer (#5707)
mendix/docs: content/en/docs/refguide/modeling/domain-model/create-a-basic-data-layer.md

A [domain model](/refguide/domain-model/) consists of entities and associations. An entity is the blueprint for an object in your application, like the **Customer** and **Order** entities mentioned in the following sections. 

Associations define the relation between two entities. As soon as you deploy the application, Mendix takes care of the underlying database for you. This means that you do not have to create tables and write queries yourself.

This document teaches you how to do the following:

* Create entities and attributes
* Add enumerations
* Create associations
* Delete association behavior

## 2 Creating Entities and Attributes {#create-entity}

To create entities and their attributes, follow these steps:

1. Open your [domain model](/refguide/domain-model/).
2. Go to **Toolbox** and drag **Entity** into your domain model.

    {{< figure src="/attachments/refguide/modeling/domain-model/create-a-basic-data-layer/toolbox-entity.png" width="300px" >}}

>     By default, Studio Pro creates a persistable entity, which means that the app's database will be able to store objects of this type of entity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    By default, Studio Pro creates a persistable entity, which means that the app's database is able to store objects of this type of entity.
```

3. Start typing directly to change the name of the entity to *Customer*, or you can go to **Properties** and enter *Customer* for the **Name**:

    {{< figure src="/attachments/refguide/modeling/domain-model/create-a-basic-data-layer/customer-name.png" >}}

4. Double-click the **Customer** entity and go to **Attributes**.
5. Click **New** to add an attribute to the **Customer** entity.
6. Enter *Name* for the **Name** of the new attribute, and select **String** as the data **Type**:

    {{< figure src="/attachments/refguide/modeling/domain-model/create-a-basic-data-layer/add-attribute.png" width="350px" >}}

> 7. Repeat the steps above to create a **Customer** entity that looks like this:

Reviewer: Please provide steps numbers here.

    {{< figure src="/attachments/refguide/modeling/domain-model/create-a-basic-data-layer/customer-entity.png" >}}

> 8. Repeat the steps above again to create a second entity **Order** that looks like this:

Reviewer: Please provide steps numbers here.

>     {{< figure src="/attachments/refguide/modeling/domain-model/create-a-basic-data-layer/order-entity-one.png" >}}

Reviewer: Please add borders to entity images.

Author: I tried to add borders, but they didn't really look good on the doc. So I left them out again.

## 3 Adding Enumerations {#add-enumeration}

> An [enumeration](/refguide/enumerations/) is a predefined list of values that can be used as an attribute type. This allows end-users to select any of the predefined values for this attribute. A good example of an enumeration is order status.

Reviewer: Please provide order status values in the last sentence with example.

2. Enter *OrderStatus* for the **Name** and click **OK**.
3. Click **New** to add an enumeration value.
4. Enter *Open* for the **Caption** and click **OK**.

    {{< figure src="/attachments/refguide/modeling/domain-model/create-a-basic-data-layer/add-enum-value.png" width="350px" >}}

5. Repeat the steps above for the **Processing** and **Complete** values. You should then have the following configured values:

    {{< figure src="/attachments/refguide/modeling/domain-model/create-a-basic-data-layer/enum-order-status.png" width="400px" >}}

    Click **OK** to save the enumeration. Now, you need to add an enumeration value-based attribute to the **Order** entity and select the **OrderStatus** enumeration there. 

6. Double-click the **Order** entity and go to **Attributes**.
7. Click **New** to add an attribute to the **Order** entity.
8. Enter *OrderStatus* for the **Name** and select **Enumeration** for the **Type**.
9. Select the **OrderStatus** enumeration and click **Select**.
10. Select **Open** for **Default value**:

    {{< figure src="/attachments/refguide/modeling/domain-model/create-a-basic-data-layer/add-order-status-attribute.png" width="450px" >}}

> 11. Click **OK** to save the new attribute. Now, the **Order** entity should look like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
11. Click **OK** to save the new attribute. Now the **Order** entity should look like this:
```

    {{< figure src="/attachments/refguide/modeling/domain-model/create-a-basic-data-layer/many-to-many.png" >}}

    When the association is set to a many-to-many multiplicity, the **Navigability** property is also activated. For further details, see the [Navigability](/refguide/association-properties/#navigability) section in *Association Properties*.

## 6 Delete Behavior {#delete-behavior}

You can configure the [delete behavior](/refguide/association-properties/#delete-behavior) for both sides of an association.

To configure the delete behavior, double-click the **Order_Customer** association to open its **Properties** dialog box:

* To configure a cascading delete, select the **Delete 'Order' object(s) as well** option in the **On delete of 'Customer' object** section; this means that all the orders of a customer are removed if the customer is deleted:

    {{< figure src="/attachments/refguide/modeling/domain-model/create-a-basic-data-layer/cascading-delete.png" >}}

> * To configure the delete prevention, select the **Delete 'Customer' object only if it is not associated with 'Order' object(s)** in the **On delete of 'Customer' object** section; this means that a customer can only be deleted if no orders refer to this customer, and the **Error message** will be shown to the end-user who tries to delete a customer that has orders:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* To configure the delete prevention, select the **Delete 'Customer' object only if it is not associated with 'Order' object(s)** in the **On delete of 'Customer' object** section; this means that a customer can only be deleted if no orders refer to this customer, and the **Error message** is shown to the end-user who tries to delete a customer that has orders:
```

> * To configure the delete prevention, select the **Delete 'Customer' object only if it is not associated with 'Order' object(s)** in the **On delete of 'Customer' object** section; this means that a customer can only be deleted if no orders refer to this customer, and the **Error message** will be shown to the end-user who tries to delete a customer that has orders:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* To prevent unnecessary deletion, select the **Delete 'Customer' object only if it is not associated with 'Order' object(s)** in the **On delete of 'Customer' object** section; this means that a customer can only be deleted if no orders refer to this customer, and the **Error message** will be shown to the end-user who tries to delete a customer that has orders:
```

Author: According to [the Rapid Developer Course](https://academy.mendix.com/link/modules/95/lectures/800/8.5-Deleting-Objects), I changed "the delete prevention" to "prevention of delete".

>     {{< figure src="/attachments/refguide/modeling/domain-model/create-a-basic-data-layer/delete-prevention.png" >}}

Reviewer: There is a small typo in the message

Author: I updated all the screenshots for the sections **Multiplicity** and **Delete Behavior**.

{{% alert color="info" %}}

> Delete behavior includes objects which are in memory. This means that delete cascades and delete prevention will apply, even if the associated object has not been committed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Delete behavior includes objects which are in memory. This means that delete cascades and delete prevention apply, even if the associated object has not been committed.
```

> Delete behavior includes objects which are in memory. This means that delete cascades and delete prevention will apply, even if the associated object has not been committed.

Reviewer: Do we define what cascading delete and delete prevention is anywhere?
